Nicole rival
Nicole Roybal: Hi, I'm sorry I
Nicole Roybal: Needed to
Nicole Roybal: Be STUPID CAT start fighting
Gwenevere Abriel: Someone's gonna have a little toy, you know, which can
Gwenevere Abriel: Be can
Gwenevere Abriel: Be
Gwenevere Abriel: Really fighting over territory.
Nicole Roybal: Nuts. I don't know. Maybe I opened the window. So my cat onyx to go out and then my little sister's cat raptor went to go out the window and onyx treatment attack to him caught him in the back and it got stuck and
Nicole Roybal: Keep on as well because they lived here my sister's caps even living here and onyx use live here and now she lives here again. So she thinks it's her house, but they think their house now so
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, like a territory thing.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. How's it been for you.
Nicole Roybal: Honestly, just really, really, really stressed out about this coronavirus oh
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's, let's talk about it for a little bit. Okay. What, what do you, what are your fears.
Nicole Roybal: Was especially because I can go to my grandparents every day and I'm out in the world. I go to the store and stuff. And then I go there and I washed my hands immediately and I clean all the door knobs and everything.
Nicole Roybal: And make sure I'm very like aware of it and be careful. But I'm still scared because they're very old and vulnerable to the to the disease. I can't talk to
Gwenevere Abriel: Now they're fragile.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, exactly. So I've just been really, really scared about that and I can't stop thinking about it because it's all everywhere.
Nicole Roybal: The world can stop talking about it, I get it. I'm just
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, we're going to put a time limit on how long we do it. Okay. But first, I want it, since it's on your mind. I want to make sure that we get it out there. So do you include when you're talking with your grandparents their opinion about your coming over.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah.
Nicole Roybal: I'm like we thought we tell them. And like we tell them that we're careful we wash our hands million times for it and give them a hug and wash my hands, but um
Nicole Roybal: I guess I haven't really ever told me their opinion. I know they're like scared about it but they haven't told me their opinion about us going over there.
Nicole Roybal: I was my grandpa says I feel safe, so you
Nicole Roybal: Mean, my mom because I'm obviously with me this week.
Nicole Roybal: Since she's all for
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me rephrase the question.
Gwenevere Abriel: What does your grandmother say to you about what she wants regarding you're coming into her home.
Nicole Roybal: Well, she she she doesn't want nothing that she just like really wants to company, but I know that she likes it when I make them food and stuff, because every time I make them food, just like my goal. So
Nicole Roybal: But I have a question. I think she
Nicole Roybal: Does a lot of ways to answer it, but I don't know which one is right well
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's, here's what might be happening has the direct question then need to her. Maybe that's why it's hard to answer because maybe nobody's asked her.
Nicole Roybal: This have asked her what she wants, like material like
Nicole Roybal: Like stuff like food wise and like materialistic wise and stuff. I haven't asked her what she personally
Nicole Roybal: Wants herself, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now, flip it. Look how scared you are
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, if
Gwenevere Abriel: You have a preference, you have like RATIONAL FEAR irrational, wherever that line is, I don't know, but we all do. We're all the whole planet does
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm. So you have a choice. You can actually asked the person how they feel about your you're out in the world. You go to the store you you're walking. You're touching everything from seats handles products that have been touched by 10 different people.
Gwenevere Abriel: Grandma.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is spread through contact spread through this way and that way. And you're part of the vulnerable population. So we're a little babies and people that have compromised immune systems.
Gwenevere Abriel: There is a risk, Grandma, how do you feel about my coming here and helping you.
Gwenevere Abriel: These are the things I'm doing to be careful. But I want to know how you feel about it.
Nicole Roybal: Okay, I'll be sure to ask her that because that is a major question I would like answered, or to your answer to
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And look, look for a moment and kind of question wonder why it hasn't already been asked.
Nicole Roybal: Like we talked about it, man. My mom like we've told her like we're scared because we go to the store and we're out in the world and we come back here. She doesn't really say nothing. She's kind of like shakes her head, like
Nicole Roybal: Like she's scared of just what's happening with the world. I don't know. I can't say that I don't know what she's thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you don't know that's great that you caught that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we told her we the second time you said it. We've told her.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But guess what you're talking about here this morning. I'm worried about my grandma. I'm worried about my grandpa.
Nicole Roybal: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wonder if they're worried about themselves. I wonder
Gwenevere Abriel: If you need not worry, you might be able to be done with worrying and probably not all of it because we got to be a little cautious, but
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm talking about the big worry the one that is taking up hours of your day.
Gwenevere Abriel: If your grandma says out loud.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm worried too.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I know you. I know you're going to be as careful as you can. And maybe you could also leave, leave your shoes outside. And also could you put some jammies on put your clothes in a little bag, maybe it even seemed ridiculous but that's what gramma wanted, you might say.
Nicole Roybal: I didn't know
Gwenevere Abriel: She might she might say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Something like that, or she might say, oh, no worries. I'm so glad to help. Help. Help. I love you guys so much. The world's gone crazy. I don't know what she's gonna say
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, but you don't have to use your imagination about it anymore. You, you don't have to go to. I would feel so guilty and mortified if I'm the one that caused her to get sick.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's a part of this include her include him. I'm used to starting with your grandma.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, which is random.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to talk about grandma know
Nicole Roybal: Putting it towards both of them, so it's fine.
Nicole Roybal: But, um,
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, I think I should. I know that she likes this going over there and we told her that we're not going to be able to go there again.
Nicole Roybal: Because we have to go to work after go help my parents at work. We have to sanitize the whole school say work at so
Nicole Roybal: Um, yeah, we're gonna be working all weekend so we told them. We're not gonna be able to go and I could tell by gramma was like really upset about that we're not going to be able to go over there.
Gwenevere Abriel: But no, I no one asked her, because you guys. You guys don't have direct communication.
Nicole Roybal: She doesn't answer because she doesn't. Um,
Nicole Roybal: I say this, she won't answer you with the truth. Shoulders answer with what she thinks you want
Nicole Roybal: It does that make sense. Like what what she thinks you want to hear she won't ever tell us the truth. I swear. She drives me nuts. That's probably why we don't ever asked her because she's never direct speak, almost. Okay. Yeah. But really, she feels upset.
Nicole Roybal: So it's very frustrating.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, we might we might pick that up a little bit later, but
Gwenevere Abriel: you getting my point that this could give you some weeks if you could get her to say out loud.
Gwenevere Abriel: I thought about it too, sweetie right honey whatever little pet name is for you. And I thought about that and
Gwenevere Abriel: I love you guys around I I feel lonely when you're not here. I love it that you're here. I'm so grateful to your help.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know as you guys will be careful. Maybe she'll actually have something to say.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I get it, I get. I get the type of personality that you're describing that she'll just she's she'll just say no. Nothing's wrong. She'll go with nothing's wrong even if she's bleeding out or eye socket.
Nicole Roybal: Exactly, exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know the type
Nicole Roybal: I get
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, but you hear that there might be a question in there. And if nothing else, Nicole. It might be good for
You
Gwenevere Abriel: Because
Nicole Roybal: We just know that to ask
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's right. You know, you ask a direct question. It's good for you. It's a good habit that direct style communication. So, I have been thinking about you and it was around a different topic.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was around school deferment
Gwenevere Abriel: And I wondered if you had been thinking about that to
Nicole Roybal: School deferment yeah deferment
Gwenevere Abriel: had wondered if you had been thinking about it.
Nicole Roybal: Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remember us talking about it.
Nicole Roybal: I'm trying to think about my school the loan how I prefer or
Nicole Roybal: That's one thing I could pretend it towards for some reason. I don't know why.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is the only reason we wouldn't be talking about my loan deferment right
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, exactly. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of course, it would be yours. Is it possible that you haven't thought about it since we talked about it.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, okay.
Nicole Roybal: Because I don't
Nicole Roybal: I don't know, I guess I'm just focused on so many different things right now. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how many minutes of the day are you focused on
Gwenevere Abriel: Fear.
Nicole Roybal: All day
Nicole Roybal: Oh my mind.
Nicole Roybal: About getting sick.
Nicole Roybal: And my little brother. He has a cold right now. Um, and he got let it get really bad. He wasn't using victory nothing he let it get really bad. So now,
Nicole Roybal: He's like super sick. And I'm like, super, super scared of getting sick because I'm so I mean system is very deep.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is only a symptom relief.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, the cure, but I know my mom is crazy about it.
Nicole Roybal: I know it's Western medicine. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's just a symptom relief, the same way as Sudafed but it can prevent a lot of runny nose so defense. Great for sort of drying it up, but it doesn't get rid of the cold. We don't actually have a cure for the cold.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, I don't have a cure for the whole but what I've watched is when
Gwenevere Abriel: I my whole family has bought into this and there's a few people I've run into to do the same thing. It has to do with using as think
Gwenevere Abriel: Either they used to make and they might still haven't seen it, and I use a tincture, but. And there used to be zinc lozenges it cut a cold that normally would take like seven days get all the way through it would cut it in half.
Nicole Roybal: Oh my gosh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And I was like, How can this be true that I know because I'm very cynical person when it comes to this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of stuff there. I'll still do it. I'll kick and scream the whole time. Like, this is not going to work. This is not
Nicole Roybal: Gonna work like OSHA
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, and it works. And so now I'm like oh
Gwenevere Abriel: So now I do it now. If there's going to be. There's a cold. That's kind of running through the house or there's something happening. I take think and my coast con like really fast.
Nicole Roybal: Next time we want to get some of those, you know, she makes this medicine tea as well like herbs and stuff. And that helps a lot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me just see what's happening here. Let me see how when you say it's all day long. So all day long.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to what's the worst thought you're getting. What's the worst your all day long. It's going worst worst worst thought
Nicole Roybal: What if anyone in my family gets it. What if I get it. What if, like, you know what I mean. And then you could have it in either. No, that's right, yeah. And so it's just it's scary. I'm literally washing my hands constantly, but I don't know if everyone else's, you know,
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So have you been doing some reading on ways that you yourself if you're around people that are using as much precaution as you are, what else you can do to safeguard
Gwenevere Abriel: Getting this this infection.
Gwenevere Abriel: Obviously washing hands that that is literally one of the best things you can do, but
Nicole Roybal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're on that. If you're around people that are not taking as much precaution.
Nicole Roybal: What, what can you do
Nicole Roybal: I know they've been saying like wearing a mask and gloves and stuff like that. But like we're all in the same house and going to touch something that they touched, no matter what.
Nicole Roybal: So it's like it's impossible. I just literally I've been watching bands like crazy man or so dry so much in Washington.
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot of people are like that. So there's handwashing and then, you know, there's also maybe having a tissue where you open the fridge door with
Nicole Roybal: Doing that all night last night.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Nicole Roybal: That's like the couch I sit on the same couch. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, you sit on your butt, because in your body, but goes on the bed, but your butts down where you but is on the bed, you know,
Nicole Roybal: rubbing the arms of the chair. It's like a one person little chair. My mom's room so like arms right next to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you bring paper towels you bought them down. That's where you rest your hands.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or you don't worry about it and you can watch them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I haven't done looking at it to see if if this particular germ likes to sit on a dry surface. There are certain things where a bug can land on a surface like Murcia, Oh man, that one does not die, Murcia, it'll sit right there will sit there for like a month.
Nicole Roybal: Oh my gosh, really.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why in jails and in hospitals, Murcia, get you actually contract it more often like in jail in control sort of settings in jails and it just the budget, since there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is very treatment resistant to
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you're here, you're all together here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So last time you were in this sort of space. I'm scared. It is such a pandemic.
Gwenevere Abriel: They closed down the schools and all sports. It is that
Nicole Roybal: I've been though we have to go clean the school this weekend.
Nicole Roybal: And be around it. We don't know there's anything in the school. But what if there isn't, like we're going to take precaution, of course, but I'm just
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it's time I do a little reading. I'm wondering how
Gwenevere Abriel: How
Gwenevere Abriel: How much contact. So let's just see
How to get
Nicole Roybal: It on a surface for 12 days and now they're saying, three days. And I'm like, wow.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know right.
Nicole Roybal: I think it's 12 and they're just lying to us, it's me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know that. See those differences, a surface versus
Gwenevere Abriel: In the body. I think in the body can probably stay there dormant and no symptoms will show possibly for maybe what that might be what the differences is to the 12 days might be inside your body, you can live in there, happily,
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't have any symptoms, but on a surface. Maybe it sits there and dies after a few days. So I don't know. Let me just see.
Nicole Roybal: Wow, can you see. And I'm like, I'm like a like a like a pillow saying
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, right, right. Alright, so
Nicole Roybal: It's not like a hard surface. So let's look at this together.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to look at this together. And if there's any list that needs to be made when you write them down, you write the list and then you're going to go do your day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Only so much we can do
Nicole Roybal: Both
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is from the Center for Disease Control, this would be your, this would be the place to go for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You hear you checking out your hair.
Nicole Roybal: No, I'm here. I turned off my video so I can look into.
Nicole Roybal: Okay, I don't want my face to cause
Gwenevere Abriel: Disease can make any one sec, regardless of their race. Okay, so it's not contingent on anything like that for most people, immediate risk of becoming seriously ill from the blah blah blah is thought to be low.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the, the, the immediate risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus is thought to be low.
Gwenevere Abriel: Older adults and people of any age with underlying health conditions such as diabetes lung disease or heart disease or at greater risk. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number four, there are simple things that you can do to help yourself and others, wash your hands, often with soap and water, so keep it under 1234 all the way to 20 it's actually the the the scrubbing them the friction that you create in here like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: That gets it off.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the scrubbing around it, does it to the whole 20 seconds just be scrub, scrub, scrub in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so it says, look at that. So it says, wash your hands, often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after low and your nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: coughing or sneezing, go to the bathroom and before eating or preparing preparing food. Avoid touching your eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Void touching your nose and mouth with unwashed hands stay home when you're sick copper your cough or sneeze with a tissue. So here's what it doesn't say it doesn't say that what this germ is that it's sitting on your couch and it jumps up into your nose.
Nicole Roybal: It does do is it
Gwenevere Abriel: Is, let's say, so just now I'm conscious that I have these inches on my cheek and my nose. So I'm conscious of it. I happen to have literally just wash them.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I also kind of do a little bit more more nail than I would something else. I'm not great at it. I should probably have a tissue over here and be using that more but my consciousness is there and it has to do with
Gwenevere Abriel: Putting my finger in my eyes, nose, or in my mouth. I'm going to be more conscious of that but that bug sitting on the armrest isn't gonna, it's not going to jump over on me. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to be Monaghan that as soon as I get up.
Gwenevere Abriel: I may want to wash my hands.
Nicole Roybal: Um, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know that seems cookie bird. But if you have people that aren't paying attention to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You may want to consider something like that. And then when you go visit your grandparents, you may decide the very last thing I'm going to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is I'm going to put fresh clothes on.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you may even decide to keep keep close there. Those are the clothes you wear when you're with them. The you leave them there by the side of the door. That's what you put on. That's what you were when you're there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you're not bringing anything new in with you that could land somewhere. And that might seem like overkill, or maybe you'll like it. Maybe you'll say, well, I feel more confident when I do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: This makes me sort of feel like I'm doing everything I can. I leave my shoes there. I already have clothes. I have this certain little sweat pants and shirt that I leave there and I were that when I'm over there.
Nicole Roybal: That's very, very smart home, Ohio.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just like right anything you're bringing from the insight and the as soon as you walk in, right. You've changed your clothes, you've washed your hands and now you're ready to sort of hang out with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay so let's just see, I'm in fact number five, it says you can help stop the virus by knowing the signs fever, cough, and they were saying it's a dry cough. Not that congested one where we actually have flam okay that's
Gwenevere Abriel: A cough. Now really, that was funny.
Nicole Roybal: I know I just SMOKERS CALL.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, because that's a different cost. So you got off and then shortness of breath, then you would seek medical advice. Okay.
Nicole Roybal: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, let's see. You didn't have to do to fill up some tips and have been in close contact with the person known to have it or live in or have recently traveled from an area was ongoing spread call ahead before you go to a doctor's office or
Gwenevere Abriel: She I would not want to go to an emergency, I would not right now.
Nicole Roybal: Right, so I wouldn't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wouldn't wouldn't tell them about your present traveler centers. Okay, someone goes to quarantine for updates.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so it doesn't say that. How long this virus sits on a surface doesn't let me just see.
How to prepare
Gwenevere Abriel: Know the signs limit visitors limit movement in the community. STAY HOME WHEN YOU CAN when you're sick take steps for those at high risk. Alright, so that's that's what you're talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. She's steps to prevent getting sick.
Gwenevere Abriel: Heart disease, diabetes, lung disease. Alright, people who may be at high risk.
Gwenevere Abriel: What to do if you are sick how get your household ready. Let me just see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your if you are a higher risk for this because of your age extra important so stock up on supplies take everyday precautions to keep your
Gwenevere Abriel: Space between years. Oh, so you don't want it. You want to say, Grandma, I love you, but I want to be sure. And normally I give you a kiss on the cheek. I'm going to not
Nicole Roybal: Always give me a kiss on the cheek.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that that's here that's really close. So then all I do is I do this and it goes to my lips. That's really close.
Nicole Roybal: To the mountain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. That's close
Nicole Roybal: That's exactly where it gets them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you may want to tell them, hey, I want to give you kisses. I missed you guys so much. Um, but I'm concerned, I need to protect you a little bit more because I never know because you might be, you might have that and not know it because if the symptoms won't show and a healthy person.
Nicole Roybal: Exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you can maybe change that that might feel like you're in a little bit more control, you could say, Okay, I gotta cut back on the affection and I know it sucks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm, okay. So when you go in public. Keep away from others who are sick limit limit your clothes contacts, you're already doing the handwashing avoid crowds really don't want to be in a group of people
Nicole Roybal: Don't want to cruise
Gwenevere Abriel: Stay home. Okay, so have supplies on hand, contact your health care provider about 20 extra dough. So that's something good. Make sure that grandparents have all their medication.
Nicole Roybal: Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doctors are probably going to be more open to giving you know TWO MONTHS SUPPLY. That makes sense.
Nicole Roybal: Right, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're going to be more open to it. Everybody understands that. I mean, I was able to cancel flights hotel reservations, a whole training everybody's like, that's fine. That's fine. I'm not charging me for anything because
Gwenevere Abriel: Everybody. Yeah, we're all going through this
Yeah.
Nicole Roybal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we have have enough how so household supplies groceries. What does it say clean your hands. Wash your hands of water where you got that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Oh, here we go. And we're getting somewhere. To see if let's see about this, to the extent possible, avoid touching high touch surfaces in public places like buttons on an elevator. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm door handles. That's when you want to have a little, a little, maybe a bag in a Ziploc bag of tissues with you that you can touch handles with or use like your I I'm kind of a knuckle to kind of go drink when I'm out. I already do these habits, though so already.
Nicole Roybal: I am. I've been trying to work gloves, and I actually like go to like the storing thing.
Nicole Roybal: So what's
Gwenevere Abriel: What's interesting about gloves. Is this if you use the same as a hand if you touch something with the glove and the glove makes its way home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then they
Nicole Roybal: Are, knocking them off as soon as I get back in the car.
Nicole Roybal: For
Nicole Roybal: Once I open the door handle I take them off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Careful. Um, let's see. Avoid eyes, nose there we've got
Nicole Roybal: To try as hard to do. I always touch my face, you know, as I sit here like this with my hat on. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can't see you, because I'm on your picture right now.
Nicole Roybal: I know. Sorry, I forgot because I like this and I'm looking at the phone. I don't want to be close to
Gwenevere Abriel: You why
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm looking at the list.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: clean and disinfect your home to remove your access. We're going to do with the school.
Nicole Roybal: My
Gwenevere Abriel: Routine cleaning of frequently touch services tables door knobs light switches handles desk toilets faucet sinks cell phone so yeah about every day I run my my am the people that will let me do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I grab their phone and I wipe it down. I hit the door handles I hit the fridge. I can't door handles.
Gwenevere Abriel: Given us. I know the faucet, especially because that's where we're all washing her hands.
Nicole Roybal: On her. Actually, I was like, I'll have like something with my hands with soap to wash like those handles in the foster Equus
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Especially in poorly mentally places.
Gwenevere Abriel: Within settings.
Nicole Roybal: And then I have that appointment on Tuesday. And I'm kind of scared to go to any doctors office, you know. Yeah. So I'm not sure I should do about that either.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well, we can we can talk about that a little bit. I wish it would tell me how long it sits on a surface.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe they don't know
Gwenevere Abriel: See how long does co because everybody will benefit from this once I get it, I can share it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nude is stable for hours on surfaces NIH. Let me see what they say. That's a reputable
Gwenevere Abriel: Source National Institute of Health, the virus that causes that is stable for several hours to days in aerosols and on services aerosols is in the air.
Gwenevere Abriel: Quote into a new study from principally boo boo do have found that several acute sin de de de was detectable in Canada for up to three hours for up to four hours on copper
Gwenevere Abriel: Up to 24 hours on cardboard up to two to three days on plastic and stainless steel. Okay. So sounds like on the toaster.
Gwenevere Abriel: toaster and your stainless steel stuff. It might sit there happily for a whole day. No, wait for three days on plastic and stainless steel.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's still not, that's not like Murcia that's days are once
Gwenevere Abriel: This is at least it's just a few days.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, but if you're running through and wiping things down or boiling them getting really hot. I would think that would clean. I gotta find out about that boiling
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see, suggest that people may acquire baba baba through the air and after touching contaminated objects and studying for was widely shared. Yeah, but do from the blah blah blah compared hound, see what else it says
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I wanted, I wanted to know how long it stayed on surfaces. So the
Gwenevere Abriel: Most like three days.
Gwenevere Abriel: How long has it been since they were kids in the school.
Nicole Roybal: Um, when did they shut down the schools last week.
Nicole Roybal: Thursday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hopefully that
Gwenevere Abriel: That that should help you feel a little better.
Nicole Roybal: Oh yeah, right. But then they've had the admin has still been going in and they take their little kids there with them are like are you stupid. We haven't cleaned was clear. Why are you gonna bring kids with you. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Well you know what, it's hard to call. We don't have money for babysitters we don't have this is a very complex event that's happening.
Nicole Roybal: I know that's what I was seeing like they probably don't have a babysitter. So they have to take them. But it's like okay hold on let them use the kids bathrooms. We already sanitized those I don't use the adult restaurant. I know.
Nicole Roybal: Sorry.
Nicole Roybal: My parents
Gwenevere Abriel: I know we're just doing the best we can, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: people infected with ideas without recognizer prior to blah, blah, blah. I
Nicole Roybal: Need to get it through the air.
Nicole Roybal: And all that
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, the air that's this. That's, um, if I sneeze. It goes like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what they mean.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It means when when we speak, where there's a little bit of moisture. It is sits in there. That's all they're saying
Nicole Roybal: So if you were someone had it and they like just on you, you get it.
I'm not gonna say you'd get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: We rather do this I would rather say there's moisture in your breath, and it may sit on that moisture may sit in there. So when you're that's aerosol that's through the air.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that's my interpretation. I'm not an expert. I'm reading this the same way you are.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, yeah, using and coughing that's aerosol is through the air. So I would say that's where it's going to be transported. So that's why, right, there's a little bit of moisture on a kiss. When you kiss grandparents your, you may be putting it on their cheek out that you have it up but
Gwenevere Abriel: You're minimizing the risk
Gwenevere Abriel: By pulling back on. We're going to stay back five feet. We're going to stay back a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I would tell them you're doing that because I mean I know if I was a Nana, I'd be like, why is it my granddaughter kissing me
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Color
Gwenevere Abriel: It's to protect her.
Nicole Roybal: Right, yeah.
Nicole Roybal: Cuz you know serious this is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Honestly, with your family. I would say things out loud.
Nicole Roybal: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so yeah. What else anything else interesting here touching eyes. Keep those hands off your eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cover your sneezes religious you're in the trash.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Nicole Roybal: Now mammals like once or do it again. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So for you, it's going to be the it's going to be touching the face all the time because that that that is something so
Gwenevere Abriel: But then you you adjust to say, well, I tend to touch my face when my hairstyles down because I'm taking the whisper and and moving it know with this hairstyling out today. And this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: All the time.
Nicole Roybal: Yep, constant
Gwenevere Abriel: But if I think the one where I have it in a button on my head, I'm not doing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So see how your hairs down today, you may say, you know what I'm going to minimize all the stuff and I'm going to have it. I'm going to do the button we do the pigtail ponytail. Do it up cute. Oh, you can do with your little your little
Gwenevere Abriel: Adorable.
Nicole Roybal: The thing is my things are always download, so no matter what I'm going like that to them. Yeah, I always have them down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Now, think about how you were feeling when we first started, and now how you're feeling since we got a few other facts.
Nicole Roybal: I feel a little bit more like
Nicole Roybal: What is that word like more
Nicole Roybal: Not really more like I guess it's secure. So I was being insecure about it. So now I like a more
Nicole Roybal: Aware and what to do. And yeah, I haven't seen it on the news all the time, but I guess it scares me. So I kind of like don't listen, even though I'm listening goes in one ear and out the other because I'm scared. I don't want to hear.
Nicole Roybal: But, um, but, yeah, I'm definitely right after we're done. I'm gonna go clean all the handles.
Nicole Roybal: freakin toaster oven.
Nicole Roybal: metal and plastic that's crazy.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, to your question, I feel more secure. Okay, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: And all I did was getting informed sometimes that's the skill is, well, I don't know what I don't know. Let me just see if I'm making this up. And that's the same exact thing I did with your grandma and grandpa to you were making up a story and I know you're probably right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Huh, it does something else to have said it out loud because you know you did everything you could to get that information from them, Grandma, I'm putting you at risk coming here because I'm bringing out contagion from the outside world and bringing it here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would be mortified. If I were the one. Now there's there's actually no way for you to know. There's no way for you to know that you were the one that brought it in, even though
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no way for you to know.
Nicole Roybal: That I blame me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the part that I worry about is that one.
Mm hmm.
Nicole Roybal: Wasn't very little officially
Nicole Roybal: Just glad that I'm at their house every day because that's what keeps me away from
Nicole Roybal: Drinking and all that. Like it's it's been hard.
Nicole Roybal: Stressing
Gwenevere Abriel: It's complicated. It's not just one thing is it
Gwenevere Abriel: For all but you're not going through this alone. We're all we all are. It doesn't discriminate on wealth. It doesn't discriminate socio economic status doesn't. It's basically the only thing it discriminates on is right, your age.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're
Gwenevere Abriel: At
Gwenevere Abriel: Or your or your kind of, you know, a little learn how a compromised immune system.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you and I may get it and we won't even know we're going to get it. And our immune system will handle it and we'll move on. But we can still carry it and be bringing it in so continue to be careful and then that's it you're thinking about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't have magic.
Nicole Roybal: Just like your body capacity and how come so much. People are dying.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no, no, I'll take me if my body.
Gwenevere Abriel: can treat it on its own. The same way it does a cold, same way it does. I'm constantly meeting infection all day long. We're constantly fighting off infection.
Gwenevere Abriel: White blood cells right we're fighting infection, all the time. And by the way, we create cancer all the time to just, you know, that
Nicole Roybal: Would have been created.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't come from a star.
Nicole Roybal: Burger body on its own.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just, it doesn't metastasize into anything. It's already happening. Our body handles things beautifully. It handles it just fine. It knows just what to do but watch just because I get I handle and resolve my cold on my own, or the virus. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm I still have it in my bloodstream. I still have it here, my immune system handled it. But I can still sneeze and pass it to someone else and they their immune system isn't isn't really that good right now. Maybe they have heart disease.
Gwenevere Abriel: And their immune system doesn't handle it. I don't pass along my good immune system to them. I'm only passing the germ.
Nicole Roybal: That's true. Okay, I get it. Okay, there we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're still a carrier, even though you're healthy
Gwenevere Abriel: They say, oh, I'm not coughing, I'm fine. That's why children are not supposed to be going out into the community because they're fine. But they're passing it around.
Nicole Roybal: Oh, crap. I know. And everyone's just from taking their kids to the park and everything and then play on the playground at the apartments. I'm just like, why do you have them out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, they're bored out of their minds. That's why.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, I get it, I get it. I really do. But
Nicole Roybal: Do some activities at home that doesn't like some
Nicole Roybal: Something I don't know.
Nicole Roybal: Coloring Books actually books. I don't play some games with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: The same could be said about
Gwenevere Abriel: Your boredom and your temptation for wanting to drink wine or to get a coloring book, why don't you do an activity inside. It's hard.
Nicole Roybal: That's what, that's how you
Gwenevere Abriel: Want to move around. We want to something novel. We want something interesting.
Gwenevere Abriel: We like that our brain likes that.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah yeah and
Gwenevere Abriel: Protecting your recovery likes that to it wants to stay distracted.
So,
Let's talk about that a little bit.
Nicole Roybal: That's very true. Yeah, that's all I do all day is trying to distract myself so
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, let me in a little bit about what the statuses with Daniel right
Nicole Roybal: Yeah. Um, we're doing okay right now he am
Nicole Roybal: I don't know, we were moving all last weekend and I know moving stuff it's it's frustrating, it's a frustrating process.
Nicole Roybal: You just mean like the whole time. Like, I would just be talking to him normal any it's like every time you talk to me about anything. He was just take the attitude.
Nicole Roybal: And just do me and I was like, What the hell's wrong with you. Why are you being so mean to me. I'm literally like not doing that I'm helping you.
Nicole Roybal: And like we go to the apartment and I'm packing up the kitchen. He's like, what's your area. So you just sitting there doing nothing.
Nicole Roybal: As I'm packing up the kitchen. I'm like, Well, I don't know. Newspapers split between these and like he was just, I don't know. He's been awful thing so many teeth for no reason.
Nicole Roybal: And then finally, the last time I was there. We're getting along all day we're doing great finally went to bed. Happy getting along. And then I was snoring and he got pissed off at, me so sorry, anyway.
Nicole Roybal: And he was mad at me all day about it so snoring. That's good. That's something I can't control. I'll try to attend like maybe my head hires THING, I DON'T KNOW, BUT I'M SORRY IT freakin smart.
Nicole Roybal: And so yeah, he's just, I'm so tired of him getting mad for nothing.
Nicole Roybal: So I finally like bark back. I am really Dave, I told him I
Nicole Roybal: Like, you don't need to talk to me like this. I'm not getting nothing wrong to you. I've been being nice. I'm not drinking. I'm not doing anything wrong with the fuck is wrong with you and I think I parked back. He's like, Don't talk to me like that without
Nicole Roybal: Like I'm so tired of not being able to stand up for myself, because you're going to get mad because I yelled, or that's bullshit already going to send up for myself and just
Nicole Roybal: Honestly, listened and that's when he started being nice to me. We're getting along, but he was just like oh shit she finally opened up her voice. Yeah. And the shut up something
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, well, right, that doesn't quite match the sort of ideal way of communicating, but there was this sense of speaking up for yourself what you do then when you what you call stood up for yourself.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah I know best I could do
Nicole Roybal: She
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, honestly, I said all that, and I walked outside to smoke cigarettes and then when I came back in. He was just quiet watching TV and say nothing. And then we just
Nicole Roybal: Started talking about something, some other conversation. I don't know if
Gwenevere Abriel: You remember your part, but you don't remember whether it worked.
Yeah.
Nicole Roybal: Cuz I
Nicole Roybal: Deep down, I probably know it didn't work. It only worked for the moment, but
Nicole Roybal: In the front of my mind, I'm thinking like, oh, it worked. I hope so. Like I wanted it to work. I finally did something, but deep down I don't think
Nicole Roybal: So I guess that's where I'm having a hard time looking inward on that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you stay overnight again.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, knows the night that was sorry I was last night I stayed there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we don't know. Now, in and of itself, is it okay if he hadn't complained about the snoring if he got up and slept on the couch and then you had breakfast and the day went on without have been okay
Nicole Roybal: Well, you had work the next day. No.
Nicole Roybal: Listen. Oh, sorry. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: He had gotten up in the morning went about his day, but in the middle of the night when you heard your story and you went out on the couch, and he slept. The next day you get up.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did not complain. Would that be okay with you.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, because you didn't friggin yell at me and you know pissed off over nothing or something I hadn't control.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. They ain't nothing eight so he needs to sleep. So do you
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, it's the complaining. That's what I'm trying to get out. Is it okay did he take care of himself and get some sleep.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's the complaining
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, especially if
Gwenevere Abriel: You live with someone who needed to get up and sleep in the other room but didn't make you feel like crap about it.
Nicole Roybal: For me,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just wanted to check because like
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, you can't sleep, you can't sleep. We have to sleep.
Yeah.
Nicole Roybal: Especially when you have to get up at four in the morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what do you want to do with your doctor's appointment. When is it
Nicole Roybal: On Tuesday at 2pm
Nicole Roybal: Not sure. I don't know what they are. So that's been on my mind a lot. See, I'm not sure I should do it that I don't know if I should go. I feel like
Nicole Roybal: I should go to the women's wellness.
Nicole Roybal: Exam or whatever it's called.
Nicole Roybal: But I don't need to go to the physical
Gwenevere Abriel: Why women's wellness. Now they're on thinking to do a vaginal exam.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's
Nicole Roybal: even scarier. I haven't had a pap smear, and like five years.
Nicole Roybal: And now I finally actually scheduled an appointment and when those ones. Next time I'll find out again.
Nicole Roybal: What is
Gwenevere Abriel: What is well okay so let's face it on your belief. So what is this. This is the same thing and it's you getting information. What if you
Gwenevere Abriel: call and say, I'd like to talk to a nurse practitioner on about my risk. I haven't seen someone in five years and had a pap smear I both want to take care of myself and I want to be cautious.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can I speak with a nurse practitioner who can tell me about what my risk is of contracting it through a gynecological exam.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just get information first
Nicole Roybal: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Same with your doctor's office because they may be doing some things extra precaution to so that because they want to stay in business as well.
Nicole Roybal: Sure. I know, right. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: And and and the truth of the matter is, uncle, I don't have the answer. So a part of me is like,
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to get these exams. I have no idea if you're putting yourself at risk. I couldn't tell you what to do. You're going to have to make that decision. So maybe getting
Nicole Roybal: I wanted to know if you're okay with that focus. You're the one that wanted me to get a physical so you can get that information.
Gwenevere Abriel: You need about what your, your physical health is things like that.
Nicole Roybal: So I don't want to. That's another thing that's why I'm like kind of
Nicole Roybal: I don't want to cancel it. I don't want you to get upset with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I wouldn't be this is these are really. First of all, it was you making the call scheduling the appointment, those were really important tasks and you did it.
Nicole Roybal: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not about disappointment in you. It's about this is a tough decision. It's far more complicated than that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Under if your excuse was I slept in.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it's irresponsibility. That's not going to support accountability in recovery for you if you you're doing the parts that are necessary for self care. This is about
Gwenevere Abriel: Am I putting myself at risk. This is different.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not going to be disappointed in you. No, thank you.
Nicole Roybal: I appreciate that. I know it sounds like I don't want it set one
Nicole Roybal: He doesn't go
Gwenevere Abriel: Off and say, hey,
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to reschedule them for a month or two months for whatever works for you. And then guess what you can reassess then
Gwenevere Abriel: That's common people reschedule it push things forward. Are they maybe they're on an early waitlist like, hey, I want to see right away, put me on a waitlist
Gwenevere Abriel: So nothing wrong with that. Just get some information.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're still I'm hearing you say.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you're experiencing thoughts of wanting to drink. How, how many times a day.
Nicole Roybal: Not much, just because it's probably
Nicole Roybal: It's probably cuz I've been at my mom's
Nicole Roybal: Last couple days.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number may have a number
Nicole Roybal: Um, did maybe just like twice.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, and I just make myself and think of something else I may do something else. I'll start cleaning just oh
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, it's not, of course, it's hard but I've been doing it for months now. So I feel like it's just like my brain is getting into like the habit of okay well I don't do that. Don't do that. Over here, over here, so I not easy, but it's I'm getting used to it. I guess what I
Nicole Roybal: Mean
Nicole Roybal: By
Gwenevere Abriel: The milligrams of
Nicole Roybal: I am on this team.
Nicole Roybal: Yes 15 and then I'll be on 14 on Monday.
Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Three.
Three.
Gwenevere Abriel: On Being on 1400
Nicole Roybal: I'll be on Monday. I'll be on 1400
Nicole Roybal: On the 23rd, I think. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so that you're only off by looks like to 200 milligrams and but that's because we are going off on by 200
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, I'm plus I was an idiot. And I didn't know how to count.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that's what I'm trying to say is
Gwenevere Abriel: Our initial number was off. That's why this whole chart that I have. I typed up over here is off by 200 so you're really on time. Okay.
Fine.
Nicole Roybal: I can't
Nicole Roybal: Talk to you in a minute. I'm doing my therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, we're at the top of the hour. So the timings good if someone wants to use the room.
Nicole Roybal: Wants to tell me something.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we got that we got that.
Nicole Roybal: And then next Friday, same time. Yeah. Let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that works.
Nicole Roybal: Sounds good to me. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will see you in group then. Okay.
Nicole Roybal: Yeah, 7am
Nicole Roybal: Yeah. Have a good day.